SEE NOTE: .txt file used in analysis can be downloaded from https://www.datafiles.samhsa.gov/dataset/national-survey-drug-use-and-health-2019-nsduh-2019-ds0001

The purpose of this research was to analyze the relationship between depression and mental health treatment patterns among post-9/11 veterans and inactive reservists. These relationships were investigated to examine the potential benefits of increasing access to mental health treatment for active-duty service members. To fulfill this research objective, logistic regression was performed on six variables that were selected as indicators for depression and treatment-seeking patterns from a dataset containing 56,136 observations and 2,471 variables. The results of this research revealed that not only is the target population more likely to have experienced a major depressive episode (MDE), received outpatient mental health treatment, and possessed an unmet need for mental health treatment within the last year, but that younger individuals within this community (18-25 years old) are less likely to have received outpatient mental health treatment within the past year. These findings suggest that depression is not only prevalent within the military community but that depression is possibly being carried over from time of service to post-service. Such implications indicate that a need exists for the implementation of greater preventive mental health services and increased accessibility to these services to help bolster early intervention efforts within the military health system.

Methods used for analysis include the generation of descriptive statistics and perfoming multiple binomial logistic regressions.

Email ammalinish@gmail.com for any code issues or questions.
